added cloudwatch content (#2163)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/observability/aws/integrations/aws-ec2-metrics.md

sidebar_label: AWS EC2 Metrics
description: The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display and gain insight about your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) for cpu, disk, network, EBS and Health Status Check.
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) using predefined dashboards. The App provides dashboards to display analysis of EC2 instance metrics for CPU, Disk, Network, EBS, and Health Status Checks. It provides detailed insights into all CloudTrail audit events associated with EC2 instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) using predefined dashboards. The App provides dashboards that analyze EC2 instance metrics for CPU, Disk, Network, EBS, and Health Status Checks, and detailed insights into all CloudTrail audit events associated with EC2 instances. It specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.
```

> [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) using predefined dashboards. The App provides dashboards to display analysis of EC2 instance metrics for CPU, Disk, Network, EBS and Health Status Check. Also it provides detailed insights into all CloudTrail audit events associated with EC2 instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) using predefined dashboards. The App provides dashboards to display analysis of EC2 instance metrics for CPU, Disk, Network, EBS, and Health Status Checks. It provides detailed insights into all CloudTrail audit events associated with EC2 instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.
```

## Metrics Types 

For details on AWS EC2 metrics, see [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch.html).

> ### Sample CloudTrail log for EC2 
> 
> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample log

```json title="Sample CloudTrail log for EC2"
```

        "accountId":"9XXXXXXX898",
        "accessKeyId":"AKIAXXXXXX22BUTQ",
        "userName":"cloudhealthuser"
    },
    "eventTime":"2022-06-30T08:05:38Z",
    "eventSource":"ec2.amazonaws.com",
    "eventName":"DescribeReservedInstancesListings",
    "awsRegion":"us-east-1",
    "sourceIPAddress":"177.20.215.222",
    "userAgent":"aws-sdk-ruby2/2.11.447 jruby/2.5.7 java cloudhealth",
    "errorCode":"Client.OptInRequired",
    "errorMessage":"AccountId '9XXXXXX898', You are not authorized to use the requested product. Please complete the seller registration null.","requestParameters":
    {
        "reservedInstancesListingSet":{},
        "reservedInstancesSet":{},
        "filterSet":{}
    },
    "responseElements":null,
    "requestID":"fe609b44-dbc5-454b-8f72-9475d1639441",
    "eventID":"6fc6df43-1ba1-4eb3-948a-0aebc569c024",
    "readOnly":true,
    "eventType":"AwsApiCall",
    "managementEvent":true,
    "recipientAccountId":"9XXXXX7898",
    "eventCategory":"Management",
    "tlsDetails":
    {
        "tlsVersion":"TLSv1.2",
        "cipherSuite":"ECDHE-RSA-XXXXX-SHA",
        "clientProvidedHostHeader":"ec2.us-west-1.amazonaws.com"
    }
}
```

> ### Query sample

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sample Query
```

| if (!isBlank(req_instanceid), req_instanceid, res_instanceid) as instanceid
| if (!isBlank(req_instancetype), req_instancetype, res_instancetype) as instanceType 
| if (isEmpty(error_code), "Success", "Failure") as event_status
| if (isEmpty(userName), user, userName) as user
| tolowercase(instanceid) as instanceid
| count as count by error_code | sort by count, error_code asc | limit 10
```

## Install the AWS EC2 App and view the Dashboards

This page provides examples and descriptions for each of the AWS Observability AWS EC2 pre-configured dashboards.

The Sumo Logic App for AWS EC2 allows you to display your EC2 instance metrics (CloudWatch) using predefined dashboards. The App provides dashboards to display analysis of EC2 instance metrics for CPU, Disk, Network, EBS and Health Status Check. Also it provides detailed insights into all CloudTrail audit events associated with EC2 instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.

### 1.1. AWS EC2 Overview (CloudWatch Metrics)

> The **AWS EC2 Overview (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides at-a-glance information about a EC2 CPU, instance disk store, network and EBS volume usage along with EC2 instance health status.

Reviewer: Should this be "EC2 CPU instance disk storage"?

Author: CPU and Instance disk storage are different widgets. 
Updated this sentence for better clarity.

Reviewer 2: I think this can be reworded as:
The AWS EC2 Overview (CloudWatch Metrics) dashboard provides at-a-glance information about EC2 CPU usage, instance disk storage, network usage, and EBS volume usage, as well as the health status of EC2 instances.

Use this dashboard to:

* Monitor average CPU utilization and dedicated host CPU utilization, along with instances with High and Low CPU utilization.
* Monitor CPU credit Usage,Balance,Surplus Credit Charge,Surplus Credit balance.
* EBS related metrics like IO Balance, Byte Balance, Read/Write - bytes, ops.
* Identify count of Status checks.
* Observe all relevant metrics for CPU, Internal Disk Store, Network utilization per instance type.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/observability/AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Overview.png')} alt="AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Overview"/>

### 1.1. AWS EC2 Summary (CloudWatch Metrics)

> The **AWS EC2 Summary (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides at-a-glance information about a EC2 CPU, instance disk store, network and EBS volume usage along with EC2 instance health status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **AWS EC2 Summary (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides at-a-glance information about an EC2 CPU, instance disk store, network, and EBS volume usage along with EC2 instance health status.
```

Use this dashboard to:

* Monitor CPU utilization along with CPU credit details & status check counts for EC2.
* EBS related metrics for EC2 instance.
* Observe Instance Disk Store (Disk Read/Write - Bytes & ops) for EC2 instance.
* Monitor Network usage metrics (Network in/out - Byes & packets) for EC2 instance.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/observability/AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Summary.png')} alt="AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Summary"/>

### 2.1 AWS EC2 - Events (CloudTrail)

The **AWS EC2 - Events** dashboard provides detailed insights into all cloudtrail audit events associated with EC2 instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.

Use this dashboard to:

* Monitor the geo location for successful and failed events.
* Observed the event status and top error codes.
* Track distribution and top event types and trends.

> * Monitor top IAM Users, Assumed Role Users and User agents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Monitor top IAM Users, Assumed Role Users, and User agents.
```

Use this dashboard to:

* Monitor Average CPU utilization over time for EC2.
* Observe CPU Credits metrics (Usage and balance) over time.
* Identify CPU Surplus Credits (Charged and Balance) over time.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/observability/AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-CPU.png')} alt="AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-CPU"/>

### 3.1. AWS EC2 EBS (CloudWatch Metrics)

The **AWS EC2 EBS (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides detailed information about EC2 EBS volumes for, Nitro-based instances based on EBS volumes read and write bytes, operations along with information on percentage of I/O and throughput credits remaining in the burst bucket.

Use this dashboard to:

* Monitor EBS volumes read and write bytes over time.
* Monitor EBS read and write ops over time.
* EBS IO balance and Byte Balance % metric over time for Ec2 instances.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/observability/AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-EBS.png')} alt="AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-EBS"/>

### 4.1. AWS EC2 Disk (CloudWatch Metrics)

The **AWS EC2 Disk (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides detailed information about a EC2 Instance Store Disk usage, based on disk read and write bytes, operations.

Use this dashboard to:

> * Monitor instance store - Disk metrics like Disk read/write Bytes and Byte rate.

Reviewer 2: Is this a reason for keeping hyphens here?

Reviewer 2: Are you sure about the capitalization of Disk, Bytes, and Byte rate?

Author: - Hyphen was used to tell what we do with Monitor instance store. Updated the sentence for better readability.
- I am sure about the capitalization.

Author: Updated accordingly.

* Monitor instance store - Disk netrucs like Disk read/write Operations and Operation rate.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/observability/AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Disk.png')} alt="AWS-EC2-Cloudwatch-Metrics-Disk"/>

### 5.1. AWS EC2 Network (CloudWatch Metrics)

The **AWS EC2 Network (CloudWatch Metrics)** dashboard provides detailed information about EC2 Network activities based on In and out packets, bytes.

Use this dashboard to:

> * Monitor imported network metrics like - Byte rate for input and output, and Bytes going in and out of Ec2 instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Monitor imported network metrics such as bytes rate for input and output and bytes going in and out of EC2 instances.
```
